
store objects/files in buckets/directories
must have a globally unique name
defined in [[Region]] level

s3 is not a [[Global Service]] but have global console.

Naming convention for buckets 
1. No uppercase
2. No underscore
3. 3-63 characters long
4. Not an IP
5. must start with lowercase letter or number

objects have a key and is the FULL path

eg: s3://my-bucket/my_folder/my_file.txt

There are no directories in S3 but keys with slashes (/) in them

object values are content of the body
max size is 5 GB, more than that use multi part upload
Each object have metadata in text key / value pair
Each object have Tags in unicode key value pair - upto 10
Each object have optional version ID

[[Versioning]]
[[Encryption]]
[[Security]]
can serve web content.

[[CORS]]

*Consistency Model*
After a successful write of a new object, or an overwrite or delete of an existing object, a subsequent read request immediately receives the latest version of the object. - read after write consistency
subsequent list request immediately reflects changes - list consistency

[[MFA Delete]]

*Access Logs*

Access logs to an S3 bucket can be logged to another S3 bucket. This can be analyzed via data analysis tool or Amazon [[Athena]]. If we set both buckets to be the same it will cause a logging loop. Access will be automatically handled by the aws.

*Replication*

CRR - Cross Region : compliance, lower latency access, cross account replication
SRR - Same region: log aggregation, live replication between production and test accounts.
Buckets can be in different accounts.
Copying can be asynch
Only new objects are replicated - no retroactive
For Delete - can replicate delete markers from source to target.

There is no chaining of replication

if b1 replicated with b2 and b2 is replicated with b3, any change on b1 will be visible on b2. Not on b3.

Objects will be replicated with version id

if we delete versions, it will not be replicated

deletion marker can replicated (optional)
[[Storage Class]]

[[Performace]]

*Select and Global Select*
Retrieve data using SQL
Less network transfer, less CPU cost client side

*Event Notification*
Object Created, Object removed etc.
Eg: thumbnail creation when new file is uploaded
destination can be [[Lambda]], [[SNS]], [[SQS]]

*Requester Pays*
Networking cost will be paid by the requester of the data
Requester must be authenticated in AWS

[[Athena]]

*Glacier Vault Lock* - for Glacier
Write once read many
Lock the policy for future edits
Compliance and data retention

*S3 Object lock* - for S3
versioning must be enabled
block an object version deletion for a period of time




 




